#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.10
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile --output-file=requirements-dev.txt requirements-dev.in setup.py
#
accelerate==0.34.2
    # via imaginAIry (setup.py)
annotated-types==0.7.0
    # via pydantic
antlr4-python3-runtime==4.9.3
    # via omegaconf
anyio==4.6.0
    # via
    #   httpx
    #   starlette
babel==2.16.0
    # via mkdocs-material
build==1.2.2
    # via pip-tools
certifi==2024.8.30
    # via
    #   httpcore
    #   httpx
    #   requests
charset-normalizer==3.3.2
    # via requests
click==8.1.7
    # via
    #   click-help-colors
    #   click-shell
    #   imaginAIry (setup.py)
    #   mkdocs
    #   mkdocs-click
    #   mkdocstrings
    #   pip-tools
    #   uvicorn
click-help-colors==0.9.4
    # via imaginAIry (setup.py)
click-shell==2.1
    # via imaginAIry (setup.py)
colorama==0.4.6
    # via
    #   griffe
    #   mkdocs-material
coverage==7.6.1
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
diffusers==0.30.3
    # via imaginAIry (setup.py)
einops==0.8.0
    # via
    #   imaginAIry (setup.py)
    #   spandrel
exceptiongroup==1.2.2
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   pytest
fastapi==0.115.0
    # via imaginAIry (setup.py)
filelock==3.16.1
    # via
    #   diffusers
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   torch
    #   transformers
fsspec==2024.9.0
    # via
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   torch
ftfy==6.2.3
    # via
    #   imaginAIry (setup.py)
    #   open-clip-torch
ghp-import==2.1.0
    # via mkdocs
griffe==1.3.1
    # via mkdocstrings-python
h11==0.14.0
    # via
    #   httpcore
    #   uvicorn
httpcore==1.0.5
    # via httpx
httpx==0.27.2
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
huggingface-hub==0.25.0
    # via
    #   accelerate
    #   diffusers
    #   open-clip-torch
    #   timm
    #   tokenizers
    #   transformers
idna==3.10
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   httpx
    #   requests
importlib-metadata==8.5.0
    # via diffusers
iniconfig==2.0.0
    # via pytest
jaxtyping==0.2.34
    # via imaginAIry (setup.py)
jinja2==3.1.4
    # via
    #   mkdocs
    #   mkdocs-material
    #   mkdocstrings
    #   torch
kornia==0.7.3
    # via imaginAIry (setup.py)
kornia-rs==0.1.5
    # via kornia
markdown==3.7
    # via
    #   mkdocs
    #   mkdocs-autorefs
    #   mkdocs-click
    #   mkdocs-material
    #   mkdocstrings
    #   pymdown-extensions
markupsafe==2.1.5
    # via
    #   jinja2
    #   mkdocs
    #   mkdocs-autorefs
    #   mkdocstrings
mergedeep==1.3.4
    # via
    #   mkdocs
    #   mkdocs-get-deps
mkdocs==1.6.1
    # via
    #   mkdocs-autorefs
    #   mkdocs-material
    #   mkdocstrings
mkdocs-autorefs==1.2.0
    # via
    #   mkdocstrings
    #   mkdocstrings-python
mkdocs-click==0.8.1
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
mkdocs-get-deps==0.2.0
    # via mkdocs
mkdocs-material==9.5.36
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
mkdocs-material-extensions==1.3.1
    # via mkdocs-material
mkdocstrings[python]==0.26.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements-dev.in
    #   mkdocstrings-python
mkdocstrings-python==1.11.1
    # via mkdocstrings
mpmath==1.3.0
    # via sympy
mypy==1.11.2
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
mypy-extensions==1.0.0
    # via mypy
networkx==3.3
    # via torch
ninja==1.11.1.1
    # via optimum-quanto
numpy==1.24.4
    # via
    #   -c tests/constraints.txt
    #   accelerate
    #   diffusers
    #   imaginAIry (setup.py)
    #   opencv-python
    #   optimum-quanto
    #   scipy
    #   spandrel
    #   torchvision
    #   transformers
omegaconf==2.3.0
    # via imaginAIry (setup.py)
open-clip-torch==2.26.1
    # via imaginAIry (setup.py)
opencv-python==4.10.0.84
    # via imaginAIry (setup.py)
optimum-quanto==0.2.4
    # via imaginAIry (setup.py)
packaging==24.1
    # via
    #   accelerate
    #   build
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   kornia
    #   mkdocs
    #   pytest
    #   pytest-sugar
    #   transformers
paginate==0.5.7
    # via mkdocs-material
pathspec==0.12.1
    # via mkdocs
pillow==10.4.0
    # via
    #   diffusers
    #   imaginAIry (setup.py)
    #   torchvision
pip-tools==7.4.1
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
platformdirs==4.3.6
    # via
    #   mkdocs-get-deps
    #   mkdocstrings
pluggy==1.5.0
    # via pytest
protobuf==5.28.2
    # via imaginAIry (setup.py)
psutil==6.0.0
    # via
    #   accelerate
    #   imaginAIry (setup.py)
pydantic==2.9.2
    # via
    #   fastapi
    #   imaginAIry (setup.py)
pydantic-core==2.23.4
    # via pydantic
pygments==2.18.0
    # via mkdocs-material
pymdown-extensions==10.9
    # via
    #   mkdocs-material
    #   mkdocstrings
pyparsing==3.1.4
    # via imaginAIry (setup.py)
pyproject-hooks==1.1.0
    # via
    #   build
    #   pip-tools
pytest==8.3.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements-dev.in
    #   pytest-asyncio
    #   pytest-randomly
    #   pytest-sugar
pytest-asyncio==0.24.0
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
pytest-randomly==3.15.0
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
pytest-sugar==1.0.0
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
    # via ghp-import
pyyaml==6.0.2
    # via
    #   accelerate
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   mkdocs
    #   mkdocs-get-deps
    #   omegaconf
    #   pymdown-extensions
    #   pyyaml-env-tag
    #   responses
    #   timm
    #   transformers
pyyaml-env-tag==0.1
    # via mkdocs
regex==2024.9.11
    # via
    #   diffusers
    #   mkdocs-material
    #   open-clip-torch
    #   transformers
requests==2.32.3
    # via
    #   diffusers
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   imaginAIry (setup.py)
    #   mkdocs-material
    #   responses
    #   transformers
responses==0.25.3
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
ruff==0.6.7
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
safetensors==0.4.5
    # via
    #   accelerate
    #   diffusers
    #   imaginAIry (setup.py)
    #   optimum-quanto
    #   spandrel
    #   timm
    #   transformers
scipy==1.14.1
    # via
    #   imaginAIry (setup.py)
    #   torchdiffeq
sentencepiece==0.2.0
    # via imaginAIry (setup.py)
six==1.16.0
    # via python-dateutil
sniffio==1.3.1
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   httpx
spandrel==0.4.0
    # via imaginAIry (setup.py)
starlette==0.38.5
    # via fastapi
sympy==1.13.3
    # via torch
termcolor==2.4.0
    # via
    #   imaginAIry (setup.py)
    #   pytest-sugar
timm==1.0.9
    # via
    #   imaginAIry (setup.py)
    #   open-clip-torch
tokenizers==0.19.1
    # via transformers
tomli==2.0.1
    # via
    #   build
    #   mypy
    #   pip-tools
    #   pytest
torch==2.4.1
    # via
    #   accelerate
    #   imaginAIry (setup.py)
    #   kornia
    #   open-clip-torch
    #   optimum-quanto
    #   spandrel
    #   timm
    #   torchdiffeq
    #   torchvision
torchdiffeq==0.2.4
    # via imaginAIry (setup.py)
torchvision==0.19.1
    # via
    #   imaginAIry (setup.py)
    #   open-clip-torch
    #   spandrel
    #   timm
tqdm==4.66.5
    # via
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   imaginAIry (setup.py)
    #   open-clip-torch
    #   transformers
transformers==4.44.2
    # via imaginAIry (setup.py)
typeguard==2.13.3
    # via jaxtyping
types-pillow==10.2.0.20240822
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
types-psutil==6.0.0.20240901
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
types-requests==2.32.0.20240914
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
types-tqdm==4.66.0.20240417
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
typing-extensions==4.12.2
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   fastapi
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   mypy
    #   pydantic
    #   pydantic-core
    #   spandrel
    #   torch
    #   uvicorn
urllib3==2.2.3
    # via
    #   requests
    #   responses
    #   types-requests
uvicorn==0.30.6
    # via imaginAIry (setup.py)
watchdog==5.0.2
    # via mkdocs
wcwidth==0.2.13
    # via ftfy
wheel==0.44.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements-dev.in
    #   pip-tools
zipp==3.20.2
    # via importlib-metadata

# The following packages are considered to be unsafe in a requirements file:
# pip
# setuptools
